[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back, everyone.
I'm so glad that you tuned back
in to "The Quest for the Cures
Continues" tonight.
In last night's episode--
I hope you were watching-- we
got some powerful information
about the fact that
you are what you eat,
and the importance
of good nutrition.
And at the very end we got
a very important testimonial
from Dr. Irvin Sahni, who
actually applied the knowledge
that he learned in the
last "Quest for the Cures,"
and dropped 50 pounds.
He's a healthier man
today because of it.
And I hope that some
of the knowledge
that you gained
last night you're
going to be able to use
and apply in your own life.
Now tonight's
episode, I'm really
excited about this
episode because we
are going to learn about
diagnostics and treatments
for cancer.
What would you feel
like if you went
to a restaurant and the
only thing on the menu
was the French fries,
and the chicken nuggets,
and the burgers?
They left off all the
good stuff for you.
They left off the salad, and
the fruit, and the salmon.
That's really what's going
on with conventional cancer
treatments.
So you go in, you're
diagnosed with cancer,
what do you have as an option?
You've got the chemo,
radiation, and surgery.
But you're not going to learn
about the other natural things
that are actually
better for you, that
might heal your cancer
quicker and with less side
effects than the big three.
That's what we're
talking about here,
and that's what we're
going to learn tonight.
We're going to teach you
some of these natural cancer
treatments that don't have
the side effects, that
are more effective than
what we call the big three.
The first interview
tonight is Dr. Ben Johnson.
Now, Dr. Johnson was
the only medical doctor
that was included in the
bestselling movie "The Secret."
And he has a lot
to share with us
in this first clip
about mammograms,
the number one breast
cancer detection method,
and how they actually
cause cancer.
And then he shares some
alternatives for those of you
that want to be tested.
Because we're not saying you
shouldn't be tested for cancer.
What we're saying is
that a lot of the tests
actually cause cancer.
You're going to learn a lot
from Dr. Johnson's interview.
So enjoy the show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We, as a medical society, are
giving women breast cancer with
our demanding that
they get mammograms.
Mammograms cause
breast cancer, period.
So mammograms are not
healthy for women.
Women should not be
getting routine mammograms.
That's crystal clear,
published in the peer reviewed
literature.
And yet, today, if a woman went
to her gynecologist, her family
doc, she would have this shoved
down her throat-- extreme
coercion to go get
this mammogram that's
causing breast cancer.
It's not saving lives.
You have a 4% increased risk
of dying if you get mammograms.
Period.
>> So the detection
technique that we're using--
the primary technique that we
use to detect breast cancer--
is causing breast cancer.
>> Absolutely.
It's a terrible test--
you know, smashing
women's breasts
and then irradiating with
cancer-causing radiation.
And then it's so insensitive.
For women under 50, it's
only like 52% effective--
sensitive.
That means-- 52 is pretty
close to 50, right?
So about half.
That means that half the
women that have breast cancer,
it would not detect
their cancer.
That's a terrible test.
And so there are
much better tests,
and yet this is what's
still being crammed
down women's throats today.
Terrible test.
Causes breast cancer.
>> And it doesn't detect-- it
detects 50% and causes cancer.
You said there are
better options.
What better options are there
for detecting breast cancer?
>> There's two better options.
If you've got a lump, if you
think you've got something,
ultrasound is great.
It's a test of anatomy.
Mammograms are tests of anatomy.
Ultrasounds are
tests of anatomy.
MRIs are tests of anatomy.
So if you've already
got a lump, you
want to have a test of anatomy.
So that would be an ultrasound,
because they can see the lump,
they can see its
consistency, they
can see whether
there's calcium in it.
And they can look at blood
flow, because tumors are going
to have increased blood flow.
So, for instance, the
sensitivity of ultrasound
is up around 80%.
It's much higher
than mammograms.
And the sensitivity
is higher, too.
But if you're looking
about prevention,
if you're talking
about screening,
there's really only
one device out there,
and that is thermography--
an infrared thermal camera.
Nothing touches the lady.
Nothing smashes her breast.
There's no
cancer-causing radiation.
As we sit here, we
are emitting heat
in the spectrum called infrared.
There's infrared,
visual, and ultraviolet.
So this is the infrared
spectrum of light,
which our eyes don't
see, but which is
very detectable by the cancer.
The military developed
this so that they
could see people sneaking
at them at nighttime,
and so that they could shoot
down missiles and things,
because they are producing heat.
>> Sure.
Like the night vision goggles.
>> There you go.
Night vision goggles
are infrared goggles.
So we use this as a
medical application
to detect hot spots
in the breast.
Well, long before there
was a tumor there,
there were cancer cells.
Probably eight to 10 years
before there was a tumor,
there were cancer cells
starting to grow--
two cells, four cells, 16
cells, 144 cells, et cetera,
et cetera.
And it takes about
eight years until you
get to about a sonometer
in size for a mammogram
or an ultrasound to detect it.
Well, that's too late, because
that one sonometer tumor--
about 5/16 of an inch,
less than half an inch--
is about one billion cells.
When you get to
one billion cells,
the cancer has already eroded
into the lymphatic system
and the venous system,
and its shedding cancer
cells all through the body.
So that's why mammograms-- one
of the many reasons mammograms
don't save lives-- it
is not early detection.
And that's one of
the little lies
they've propagated along--
early detection saves lives.
Get your mammogram today.
>> Right.
>> Well, that statement's true--
early detection does save lives.
It's just that mammography
is not early detection.
It's too late.
And then the
cancer-causing radiation--
so the long and
the short is you're
causing much more breast
cancer with mammograms
than you are detecting.
>> OK.
So you mentioned
early detection--
the phrase that you hear
all month this month--
October 2014-- early detection
is your best protection.
>> Thermography is the
only early detection
because, as years before
that became a tumor,
those cells were growing,
and growing, growing.
They were increasing
their blood supply.
Some of them are dying
off, creating nitrous oxide
and other debris that
dilates the blood vessels
and skin above it.
So that reflects as a heat
pattern on the thermogram.
So thermograms are the only
early detection out there.
That's because thermography
is a test of physiology.
It's looking at what's
happening in the breast,
as opposed to the other
tests are anatomy.
Something already has
to be big enough to see.
When it's big enough to see,
it's virtually too late.
>> It's already
beginning to spread.
So you hear all
month this month,
it's Breast Cancer Awareness
month, about early detection.
You're saying they should
be using thermography
instead of mammography.
It's a better early
detection technique.
Why, in your opinion,
are they not using it
if it works so much better?
>> You know, there are things
that you just want to shoot
yourself over that the medical
standard medicine does not
that.
I'm not much of a conspiracy
theory type person,
but I've come to believe
that American medicine is not
about helping people get well.
It's about managing
disease, and selling drugs,
and creating money through the
paradigm of patient treatment.
So you can't talk about cure.
You can't look at getting
people well from cancer.
They just want to treat them
and then watch them die.
It's really a pretty
pathetic state of affairs.
>> Mammography releases ionizing
radiation that causes genetic
mutations in your body's cells.
And if you get
enough mammograms,
eventually they
will find cancer,
because the mammograms
cause the cancer.
>> Yeah.
And I think it was Dr. Russell
Blaylock a few years ago
came out with a study that each
mammogram increases the woman's
risk of cancer about 2%.
So if you look at the
period from the age of 40
to the age of 50, women are now,
by the American Cancer Society,
recommended to start getting
their mammograms at 40.
To the age of 50, that's
10 years times 2%.
Their risk is increased by 20%.
And a recent study that
just was released last year
showed that mammograms
from the age of 40 to 50
do not help detect cancer.
The ACS knows that,
but they have not
changed their recommendation.
>> No.
Because mammography is
the recruitment method
for the cancer industry.
The cancer industry is
a multi-billion dollar
for-profit industry.
Anyone who thinks that the
cancer industry is primarily
motivated by compassionate
love for women's health
is kidding themselves.
This is an industry that
is insidiously engaged
in routine systemic
censorship of information
about natural cancer cures,
treatments, and prevention
methodologies that really work.
This is an industry
that uses mammography
as a way to scare women,
to use fear-based tactics,
fear medicine, into
receiving treatments
that most of the time are not
necessary and don't help them.
>> What is tamoxifen?
So on a cancer cell--
especially a breast cancer
cell-- it has receptor sites.
Tens of thousands,
maybe hundreds
of thousands of receptor sites.
And some of those
receptor sites are
for estrogen. And
so tamoxifen is
a drug that hooks to the
estrogen receptor site
and occupies it.
Now, you want that
site occupied.
There are three natural
female estrogens--
estrone, estriol, and
estradiol-- estradiol
being the more potent,
naturally cancer-causing one.
So you want to occupy that
receptor site to keep estradiol
from docking there, but you
could be giving that patient--
and I do give my breast
cancer patients--
estriol, a normal hormone
that their body makes
and is used to.
I just give it in abundance
to block those receptor sites.
You can block those
receptor sites with soy.
receptor sites
with many
non-stimulating things.
You want those estrogen
receptor sites blocked,
but not with tamoxifen.
>> Well, I know you're
not a conspiracy theorist,
but nothing better to
create repeat business than
to perpetuate the disease
that you're supposedly trying
to treat.
>> Mammograms, tamoxifen,
you've got a built in clientele.
You're going to get
that patient back.
They're going to get--
if they don't have
breast cancer,
you take enough mammograms and
they will have breast cancer.
And you give them
tamoxifen, you know you're
going to get that patient back.
>> Good repeat business.
>> Hey, it's a good
business model.
>> It's a good business model if
you don't have very many morals
or conscience.
>> I see medical students.
They come and train
in our office.
They are $200,000
to $300,000 in debt.
And what are they
going to do out there?
Where is the money going to be?
The money is in
diagnosis and treatment,
and unfortunately that's
where we've gone with things.
But I always tell people
they should look twice
before donating to
charities like Komen
Foundation or the American
Cancer Society and really look,
are they really searching
for an underlying
cause of these
problems, or are they
just perpetuating the same
old model that's not working?
>> Right.
We should be running
for the cause.
>> Absolutely.
>> This month is October
2014, we've got Breast Cancer
Awareness Month.
Run for the Cure,
maybe we should
be running for the prevention.
>> Well, we absolutely should.
And I don't fault mostly women--
all those women and some men--
who go out and run and walk
and try and raise money,
because they have issues
like you and I had.
You know, our parents,
whoever, died of cancer.
So they're trying to raise money
for something that they feel,
or they've been
told, is the answer.
But talk to those people and
say, why are you doing this?
And they'll tell
you the reasons.
And you say, where
does the money go?
What's the answer?
The answer is always
cancer research.
And the fact is that they don't
know where that money goes.
And they need to know.
Because the majority
of that money
goes into what I call the
dark, black, sucking hole that
is called cancer
research, but it's
never going to be seen
or heard from again--
those research dollars.
Why not put it into prevention?
Why not put it into things
that actually work for cancer?
Why not have clinical
trials actually
on foods and supplements?
But the FDA-- one of
the former FDA directors
said, in my tenure, we will
never, ever do a clinical trial
on a natural substance.
We won't allow it.
>> Right.
>> It's a problem we have
in our country today.
The actual things
that keep us healthy
and heal us when
we're not healthy
are not allowed to see
the light of day, ever.
And they're not even considered.
This is what God
put on this planet
and on this Earth to
prevent these sicknesses
and diseases that are largely
man-made, and to heal us when,
and if, we get these
sicknesses and diseases.
And yet they're given
no consideration today.
>> Tamoxifen, the top drug
for treating breast cancer,
actually causes cancer.
Mammograms cause cancer.
Thermography is a
much better option.
Yes, this month is Breast
Cancer Awareness Month,
but shouldn't we run for the
cause instead of for the cure?
Shouldn't we try to prevent
breast cancer instead
of continually treating it?
Now, I agree with Bob Wright--
I'm not blaming the good people
that are Running for the Cure.
Those people are out
there doing their best
to find an answer to cancer.
The problem is, about 80% of
that money that you're donating
is not going to research.
Less than 20% of
the money that's
donated to these
cancer charities
actually goes to research.
It goes to
administrative overhead.
It goes to the fat cat
salaries of the administrators
and the board of directors.
It goes to travel and
entertainment expenses,
but it does not go to research.
And what about prostate cancer?
Is the PSA the best diagnostic
test for prostate cancer?
Let's find out.
>> The founder of the PSA
test has come up with a couple
of articles recently saying
that he didn't design that test
for everybody to get it to
get diagnosed prostate cancer.
And he thinks it's a wrong
therapy that we're doing.
80% false positives
with the PSA testing.
So here the American Cancer
Society and the powers that be
recommend doing
yearly PSA screenings.
They backed off a little
bit from that recently.
But, basically, they're
recommending yearly PSA testing
for men over the age of 50.
And what happens is,
when the PSA elevates--
which it can elevate from a
lot of reasons besides cancer--
prostatitis, if the prostate's
been stimulated within 24
hours of the blood testing.
>> Inflammation.
>> Anything that
causes inflammation.
And then they go into the
whole cancer industrial complex
themselves, where they're
getting ultrasounds, biopsies,
chemotherapy,
surgery, radiation.
And most men with
prostate cancer
can outlive it if they
don't do anything.
They'll end up dying
of something else.
So we've got a
whole mess on that.
And, again, we need to search
for the underlying cause of why
one in three men have it.
And we need to certainly
do a lot less therapy
on men with prostate cancer.
We're not saving enough men
for it, and putting way too
many men through too many toxic
and traumatic therapies for it.
I think the numbers are, if
you're over 80 years old,
about 88% of men will
have prostate cancer
at the time of death
if they do an autopsy.
3% will die from it.
8% are affected by it.
The rest are dying
of something else
if they've had prostate care.
>> They live with it, and
they may not even know.
>> We're treating every man
as if that's the same thing,
and it's just a disaster.
It's sad.
>> Wow.
80% false positives
with the PSA test.
And then what happens?
You go in for chemo,
you go in for radiation,
and they actually
perpetuate the disease
that you might have
never even had.
There's better
options-- the AMAS
tests-- stands for
anti-malignin antibody in serum.
The Navarro urine test, which
measures the amount of HCG
in the blood.
Those are two very noninvasive
tests, and very effective tests
as well.
In this next clip,
Dr. Tony Jimenez,
as a conventionally
trained medical doctor,
shares the story of how
his father was diagnosed
with prostate cancer, and how
he went to natural methods
to treat it.
>> My dad, who lived in Texas,
developed prostate cancer.
So he went to MD
Anderson, right?
And, of course, they wanted to
do the surgery, the radiation,
the Lupron, and all of that.
And I said, there has
to be a better way.
So that was the
impetus that drove me
into seeking better
ways of treating my dad.
And thankfully, he was cured,
totally free of cancer,
even though he had already
external metastases
beyond the prostate to lymph
nodes and a little bit on bone.
So it was a fabulous
result. Based on that,
there was no turning back.
>> So what treatments did he use
then to turn around this cancer
that had already metastasized?
>> Yeah, back then we used
some intravenous anti-cancer
therapies, like Poly-MVA,
vitamin C. At that time--
we're talking 30 years
ago, 25 years ago--
we used shark cartilage that was
around, rectally in implants.
And just the different things
that were there at that time.
Of course, throughout
these years
there's been a
lot of advancement
not only in treatment, but also
in the knowledge of what really
are the hallmarks of cancer.
So when a patient calls
me and they say, Dr. Tony,
have you treated osteosarcoma,
or rhabdomyosarcoma,
or rare cancers?
The answer is always, it's
not about the cancer type,
it's about treating
the characteristics
of cancer, which are
common in all cancers--
such as angiogenesis, blood
flow, increases in vascularity.
A tumor or mass cannot grow
beyond two millimeters in size
without increasing blood flow.
So all the patients
that come to Hope
for Cancer, where
they have a tumor,
let's say, in the breast,
in the liver, prostate,
we check for blood flow--
vascularity.
And we have excellent results
in decreasing blood flow.
Current statistics
at Hope for Cancer
say that within the three
weeks that the patients are
in the clinic, we have an
average of about 45 to 51%
decrease in blood
flow to the tumors.
>> So you're stopping the
nutrient flow to the tumors.
>> Exactly.
And the ability of that tumor
to excrete the byproducts
of metabolism, the waste.
>> OK.
Which a lot of times,
the toxic waste
is what will then further
compromise the body.
>> Exactly.
Yes.
>> It's funny that you
mention shark cartilage,
because our mutual
friend, Dr. Rashid Buttar,
I interviewed him for
"The Quest for the Cures."
He mentioned that he used to use
shark cartilage in his protocol
as well.
He doesn't anymore
because, as you mentioned,
things have advanced.
The treatments have advanced.
But he did 15, 20 years ago.
>> That's right.
Yes.
And one of the things
that I put together
in my 25 years
working in cancer is
what we call the seven key
principles to cancer therapy.
This was actually
recently published, Ty,
in a peer-reviewed medical
journal out of UCLA.
It was amazing, because it's
an alternative mind-frame
and thought about
how to treat cancer.
And these seven principles
that we adhere to
with all of our patients are
nontoxic cancer therapies,
stimulating or optimizing
the immune system.
Of course,
detoxification, nutrition,
anti-microbial therapy--
we have to realize more and
more that, not only in cancer,
but in chronic disease--
microbes, whether it's
parasites as Hulda Clark says,
whether it's fungus, as Dr.
Simoncini says, or viruses,
or bacteria, play a
key role in the onset
or the progression of
cancer and chronic disease.
The other one, of
course, is having
to do with the emotional,
biological aspect of disease.
And this we spend
significant amount of time
with our patients,
because unless you
get at the core root of the
emotional, biological reasons--
or these are like the
conflicts, the traumas.
What is the baggage
that we're carrying?
>> Right.
>> What are our secrets, right?
Until we address
that and let them go,
that's when the true
healing can take place.
Because remember, buried
feelings never die.
And we can suppress
it, we can say
I've put it on the back
burner, but it's always there
having an impact on your immune
system and everything else.
And number seven is the oxygen
therapies, or oxygenation.
And we're well aware
of the reason for why
oxygen therapy is so important.
So I say, if we adhere to
these seven key principles,
we will have the best
possibility of not only placing
a patient, or helping a
patient go into remission,
but ultimately affecting
a resolution of disease.
>> You just listed these
seven, and it's amazing
the similarities between
those seven and then Dr.
Buttar has the seven toxicities.
>> After a lot of
research and dialogue,
I believe that hyperthermia,
sono-photo dynamic therapy--
which is another big therapy
that we do at Hope for Cancer.
There's actually three clinics
in the world doing sono-photo
dynamic therapy--
and we're the one with the
most experience in this--
using sound and light
to fight cancer cells.
So hyperthermia,
sono-photo dynamic therapy,
oxygen therapy, and
our latest addition
to our arsenal at Hope for
Cancer is viral therapy.
And this is called RIGVIR.
You know, maybe in
the news recently,
Ty, that someone
with multiple myeloma
had an injection
with measles vaccine.
And they were pronounced
cured of multiple myeloma.
So vaccines have
been used in medicine
to try to attack cancer.
And Amgen Oncology--
A-M-G-E-N Oncology in the US--
is in phase three
clinical trials
of a genetically
biotechnologically
engineered virus that
will attack cancer cells.
But would you ever, or would
I, want to administer this
to ourselves?
Right?
Genetically modified
bioengineered virus?
Forget it.
>> Right.
>> Right?
So this is where viral
therapy in the form of RIGVIR
comes into play at
Hope for Cancer.
This is a virus that
is non-pathogenic--
meaning it cannot cause
disease in humans.
It's not genetically
modified, it's a wild strain.
That means it's found in nature
in the healthy gut of children
between 7 and 11 years of age.
>> So it's just part
of your microflora?
>> Part of your microflora.
So in the mid '60s, in
the old Soviet Union,
they were really
focusing on viruses.
And they're the
ones that developed
the polio vaccine that's
used all around the world.
So this same team found
a virus, as I just
described--
non-pathogenic-- that has
two mechanisms of action.
One is it migrates
towards cancer cells.
Scientific word for
that is oncotropism.
>> I like that.
A big fancy word.
>> Yeah, right?
It sounds good.
>> Oncotropism.
>> So it migrates and
recognizes cancer cells.
The second part of
all this is that it
invades the cancer cells,
penetrates it, and causes--
a big fancy word-- oncolysis--
breaking up of that cancer cell.
So now the viruses migrate,
through oncotropism,
and infect other cancer cells.
>> So it appears that they
are selectively toxic,
or they head for those cancer
cells like a magnet would.
>> Exactly.
>> OK.
>> Yes.
And then the next
big part of all this,
Ty, is that it has the ability--
guess what-- and I'm addressing
your question about the immune
system--
the RIGVIR virus has
the ability to bind
to those proteins
on the cell surface
that cloak the cancer cells
from immune recognition.
>> Mm.
>> So now, enhancing the immune
system with whatever we use,
will have the
effect that we want.
>> Because now they can see--
>> Now they see it.
>> Wow.
And so when people
hear this, they
say, oh, you're using
a virus, that's bad.
But people don't really
understand sometimes
that we have--
there's good viruses
and bad viruses.
There's good bacteria
and bad bacteria.
So you've got your microflora
has all kinds of good guys
and bad guys that
are always fighting.
And so you guys are taking
one of the good guys.
>> Exactly.
>> And it has a natural
propensity to look at cancer
cells to remove that cloak.
That's fascinating.
I'm not familiar
with that treatment.
Well, I wasn't.
Now I am.
>> And guess what, Ty--
I have six kids.
I would never give
myself something
that will be detrimental
to my health, obviously.
And one of the differences
between a healer
and an oncologist
or physician, is
that a healer will give himself
or herself anything that they
will prescribe a patient.
On the contrary, 86% of
oncologists polled, or so,
said they wouldn't
give themselves
what they give their patients.
>> They would not take
chemo or radiation.
>> Exactly.
>> Wow.
>> 86%.
>> 86%?
>> The other 14%, I think
maybe when they would extend
their arm and start
the drip of the chemo,
they will pull it back.
But, you know-- so I took an
injection of the viral therapy
RIGVIR, because I know
it's not pathogenic.
My dad had prostate
cancer, as I said,
so I wanted an
optimal immune system.
I want an immune system
that has the ability
to recognize any developing
cancer cells in my body.
You'll be hearing a lot
more about viral therapy
in the months and years to come.
>> The second treatment
that you mentioned--
the photo--
>> Sono-photo dynamic therapy.
>> I can't even say it.
>> Yes.
It took me a couple
of months to.
>> Can you describe
what that is?
>> Yes.
We know in conventional medicine
that photodynamic therapy--
PDT-- has been used for
many, many years and decades
to treat skin cancers.
You use a sensitizer that's
absorbed by the cancer cells,
and you use light--
that's phototherapy It could
be in the form of lasers,
it could be in
the form of LEDs--
light emitting
diodes-- and that's
been proven without a doubt
that kills cancer cells.
And Cancer Treatment Centers
of America, in the US,
they do photodynamic therapy--
PDT-- to treat skin cancer,
as I just mentioned,
but they also do it to treat
esophagus and stomach cancer.
Because they do it
through an endoscopy--
they put in the laser and target
the esophagus or cancer tumor.
OK.
So that's photodynamic therapy.
Photodynamic therapy has a
depth of penetration limitation,
because, as you know, light
has a penetration limit, right?
The thicker the membrane,
the light won't go through.
So if you're behind a wall
and you shine a light,
you can't see it on the
other side of the wall.
>> That's why we have
curtains on the window.
But what about sound, Ty?
Sound travels much further.
>> So somewhere
near New York City.
>> Right.
Yeah.
And dolphins love that, right?
>> Yeah.
>> The sound.
So we know that sound
travels in water.
If our body is 70%
to 75% water, then we
can have good effect
of sound therapy.
This is where the sono part of
this therapy comes together.
So sono-photo dynamic
therapy is using
sound and light, or photo,
to affect cancer cells.
So the sono part is
we use an ultrasound
emitting sound frequencies at
specific amplitude, intensity,
wavelength.
And we know that the
substance that is used--
the photo sensitizer-- is
absorbed by cancer cells.
This is a chlorophyll
derivative, so
totally nontoxic.
>> Lots of oxygen, too.
>> Yes.
Cancer cells absorb
it 70 to one--
70 cancer cells for
one normal cell.
We wait 24 hours for
maximum absorption
within the cancer cells.
Normal cells, for
some God-given reason,
will excrete whatever
they absorb--
the normal cells will.
So after 24 hours,
the sensitizer--
the chlorophyll derivative--
is only absorbed and retained
within cancer cells.
But it does nothing by itself.
It has no physical, chemical,
biochemical, biological action
until we wake it up,
like a sleeping bear.
How do we wake it up?
Using the sound and using the
phototherapy, or light therapy.
Proven, specific frequencies,
intensity, wavelength,
and amplitude.
Once this happens,
this molecule--
which, I mean, I don't
want to get too technical--
but it's a porphyrin
ring molecule.
So it's very known
to the human body.
Because in our blood
we have something
called hematoporphyrin.
And so this sensitizer--
a chlorophyll derivative--
is not foreign to the body.
So at this time, when we do the
sound and the light therapy,
and the sensitizer is
within the cancer cells,
now we stimulate its activity.
And that is to release
oxygen radicals, which
are toxic to cancer cells.
>> Right.
>> Every treatment must
take into consideration
detoxification,
as you well know.
So when patients have side
effects or Herxheimer's
Reaction, it's because
we're not doing
or due diligence to
make sure the skin
is detoxing the liver,
the kidneys, respiration.
So detoxing is a must.
>> So what processes do you use
to make sure that the patients
are detoxified properly?
>> The first thing?
Nutrition.
Proper nutrition and juicing.
We do coffee enemas.
Coffee enemas were in
the "Merck Manual"--
the bible of medicine-- before
any laxative or any detoxer
was.
But drugs came into existence,
so coffee is now not
appropriate.
So we use a specific
type of coffee.
So you can't drink this kind.
This is--
>> So it's dark roast?
>> Right.
>> Folgers dark roast coffee.
>> It is organic.
Caffeinated, because,
see, coffee enemas
are not to clean the colon.
Coffee enemas are to detox
the liver and the gallbladder,
as you know.
So we use a specific coffee.
Actually it comes
from Canada, and it
meets certain
characteristics to do that.
>> Nice.
OK.
So that's a biggie--
>> Oh, I'm sorry--
I didn't-- that's
just two, right?
Nutrition, juicing,
coffee enemas.
Of course, exercise, lymphatic
drainage formulas, or bouncing
rebounding.
A negative thought can kill
you faster than a bad germ.
So one of the main things
to detoxify is here--
>> The mind.
The emotions, the
conflicts, the traumas--
going back to what
we said earlier.
>> Sure.
>> So detoxing those
psychological, emotional,
biological conflicts
and trauma is key.
And then we could talk about
other things to detoxify.
The list is extensive.
But I would say these are
the primary basic ones.
>> Those are the keys.
So for cancer patients, my big
recommendation is faith in God,
be strong with your
spiritual aspect
of your life, the emotional,
and then the physical.
You know, as it was
in the ancient times,
when someone went to a
Hope for Cancer Institute,
the first person they saw
was the spiritual advisor.
The second person they saw was
the emotional, psychological
counselor, and then they
saw us, the physicians.
>> So Dr. Jimenez just
shared with us his seven key
principles in treating cancer.
And in this next clip,
Dr. Rashid Buttar
shares with us what he calls the
seven toxicities that he tries
to remove when treating cancer.
>> Again, all disease--
not just cancer--
is a deficiency
of some type of a nutrient,
or it's a toxicity
and it's a result
of the toxicity.
It can be a toxicity
plus a deficiency,
or it can just be the toxicity.
But if you can address
those two things,
then you've got a chance
of actually resolving
the situation.
And of those toxicities,
we have defined
seven different toxicities.
The seven toxicities
are heavy metals,
the second one is persistent
organic pollutants,
the third one is
opportunistics-- the bacteria,
virus, spirochetes, mycoplasma,
yeast, those types of things--
meaning something that needs
an opportunity to set up house.
Yeast, for example,
a fungus, would not
affect you unless you're
immunocompromised.
So the first toxicity--
heavy metals--
or the second toxicity--
persistent organic pollutants,
or chemicals-- will
suppress the immune system
that allows for that
third toxicity--
the opportunistics-- to
actually set up house.
Then the fourth, fifth,
sixth, and seventh toxicities,
they're a little
bit more esoteric.
The fourth one is energetics--
I mean, cell phone radiation,
electromagnetic radiation,
that type of stuff.
The fifth one,
emotional, psychological.
Sixth one, food.
Not what is in the food we eat,
but what's done to the food--
the genetic modification, the
irradiation, homogenisation,
pasteurization,
that type of stuff.
And then the seventh
one is spiritual.
>> I've read about
your cancer protocol,
and you have something
that you call AARSOTA.
Can you talk about
what your AARSOTA is.
Is it a vaccine?
What is AARSOTA?
>> AARSOTA is an acronym that
stands for autogenous antigen
receptor-specific oncogenic
target acquisition.
>> I'm glad you
called it AARSOTA.
I'll try to remember that.
A-A-R-S-O-T-A.
>> That's right.
AARSOTA.
A-A-R-S-O-T-A. Exactly.
So autogenous means
your body's own.
Antigen receptor-specific
means it's
specific to an
antigen receptor site
that we're collecting,
that we isolate
from the urine-- similar to
what Burzynski does, except he's
coming up with the
antineoplastons at a universal,
across the board.
And we're saying that
the antigen receptor
sites in everybody's tumor is
unique just as their DNA is
unique, specific to them.
So it's an autogenous--
body's own--
antigen receptor-specific--
specific to the DNA of that
individual--
autonomour, antigen
receptor-specific, oncogenic--
meaning cancer--
target acquisition, meaning
it's acquiescing the target.
It helps the body's
immune system
to identify what's
being foreign.
So cancer, first and
foremost, is a problem
with the immune system.
You cannot have cancer if you
have an intact immune system.
If you have cancer, you don't
People say, you know, my
immune system is fine.
Then you can't have cancer.
Because you can't two.
Those two things
can't live together.
If it's an immune system
that's compromised,
you could have cancer.
If you have cancer, you
have to, by definition,
have a compromised
immune system.
So part of this is we have to
stimulate the immune system.
We have to repair
the immune system.
So there's five phases
that we use when
we deal with cancer patients.
The first is systemic
detoxification,
as we've talked about.
The second one is
physiological optimization.
So we want to optimize
the entire physiology
to that of the highest
possible level that we can.
In quantum physics lingo, this
would be achieving zero point.
So we're trying to get maximum
benefit, maximum output,
with the minimal
expenditure of energy.
The third phase is
immune modulation.
We want to repair
the immune system,
train the immune system
to start working again.
Fourth one is
target acquisition,
or to acquiesce the
target, meaning--
again, you know, I'm prior
military-- so you have
to first identify the target.
And the problem is the
immune system, many times,
doesn't identify
the cancer as being
formed because the
cancer mimics a fetus--
alpha-phetoprotein,
human chorionic
gonadotropin nonspecific
markers of cancer,
but they're also
markers of pregnancy.
When you do a pregnancy
test, you're looking for hCG.
When you do have
alpha-phetoprotein
for women for amniocentesis,
that's a marker of pregnancy,
but it's also nonspecific
marker for cancer.
So the cancer mimics a fetus, so
the body doesn't respond to it.
So we have to now show the
body that this is not natural.
This thing that's
growing in here,
it's not supposed
to be left alone,
it's actually supposed
to be attacked.
And so we have to train the
body to acquiesce that target.
So we basically-- it's like
flipping on night goggles,
and all of sudden
you realize who's
foreign and should
be-- you know,
which are the aliens that
need to be eliminated,
and which are not, Ty, if you
believe in science fiction
movies or anything like that.
I think that aliens
are all friendly,
if there are aliens out there.
But anyway, you understand
what I'm saying.
That's a different part.
You don't want to know that
part of Dr. Buttar, right?
>> No, I want to
know everything.
>> Well, we're going to go out
and see our UFO buddies next
week, right, Ty?
>> That sounds good.
Sounds good.
>> That's the fourth part,
and then the fifth part is
maintenance.
So you've got the first one--
systemic detoxification,
the second one the physiological
optimization, third one,
immune modulation, fourth one,
target acquisition, and then
the fifth step is maintenance.
And that's how we
deal with cancer.
>> Dr. Buttar just mentioned
antineoplastons and Dr.
Burzynski.
So you know I had to
head down to Houston
to talk to Dr. Burzynski
about this treatment,
antineoplastons, which has
been very effective at treating
brain cancer.
>> We proved that,
in certain areas,
which is the most
difficult area of oncology,
which is the treatment of
incurable brain tumors,
we can have very good responses
in various types of tumors.
And we can increase survival
of the patients remarkably.
>> Yeah.
You know, your wife showed
me pictures of brain tumors--
>> Yeah.
It is scientifically
documented, and it's
presented in research
articles, it's
presented at first-class
oncology congresses.
So there's no doubt,
if the patient
was diagnosed at diagnosed
by some of the best
scientists in the world with
an incurable brain tumor,
and is surviving
to, say, 20 years,
it means something works.
>> I saw a picture of a young
boy that was diagnosed at two,
and now he's married with kids.
>> That's right.
Plus, he is a fireman,
so this must work.
He must be in good condition.
>> He must be.
So you talk about brain tumors.
Are there specific
types of cancer
that the antineoplaston
treatment
works better on than others?
>> Well, we concentrate on brain
tumors because brain tumors
have the opinion of being
very difficult. So basically,
you don't hear about spontaneous
regression of brain tumors.
And that's why we
selected brain tumors,
because we knew if we proved
that we can have people who are
surviving, say, for
a very long time--
tumor-free over 10 years,
or 15 years, or 20 years--
this means that it works.
Ultimately, you can probably
convince most of the critics
that it works.
Because there is no
argument about survival.
You can have argument about
seeing the tumor shrinking.
Some of them will say,
OK, it shrunk 20%.
Some of them, it shrunk 50%.
Some of them, I don't
see this anymore.
But even the guys who always
will see something and say,
no, it's not in remission.
But if the patient
who was supposed
to be dead within two months
is surviving over 20 years,
this means that something works.
This year was quite special,
because within the last year,
we were invited to three
weddings of our patients
who recovered completely
and got married.
>> I saw the pictures.
>> You mentioned one of them,
then we had some others.
And we had one patient
who recovered completely.
And she was a young
woman who was given up
at the University of
California for brainstem
glioma, DIPG, diffuse
intrinsic pontine glioma.
She failed completely.
She came to us.
We got rid of her tumor.
She got married.
She's got children.
Now, this year, she's
got her first grandchild.
And she is living a perfectly
normal life, 26 years later.
>> Wow.
Talk about epigenetics,
and the way
that you're looking
at the genome.
There are certain
things that you
can do that would influence
the way that your genes express
themselves.
>> Absolutely.
So epigenetics is
a science which
studies the factors
which influence
activity of the genes.
Basically, they turn on and
off activity of the genes.
And that's what we
studied extensively.
And we found that
this is the mechanism
of action of antineoplastons.
They don't really change
the structure of the genes,
they work on the genes
from the outside.
They turn on and off the
activity of the genes.
And basically we are
trying to turn off
the activity of the
genes which cause cancer,
and turn on the activity of
genes which fight cancer.
And these are our
genes in our body.
So once this happens, then
the rest is done by the body.
So we don't really
kill malignant cells
like chemotherapy.
We simply trigger the body
mechanism to do the job.
>> So the antineoplastons work
kind of like a light switch,
turning on or off certain genes.
>> Absolutely.
And the rest is done
by the body itself.
>> OK.
>> So that's why the treatment
can be done with relatively
limited toxicity.
You can tell this because,
obviously, we are not really
damaging the
structure of the body.
We only influence the working
of the switches, more or less.
>> Right.
And so that's where
your treatment--
>> But I am not permitted
to even say switches,
because now I am sued by the
Texas Medical Board for saying
that antineoplastons
work as switches.
>> Really?
>> Yes, because they say this
is a false advertisement,
despite the fact that
this was introduced first,
ingredients of antineoplastons,
by researchers from Johns
Hopkins Medical School.
But I am now facing
a lawsuit while they
make another announcement that I
am making false advertisements.
So what we do now will be
part of "false advertisement."
>> False advertisement.
>> That's right, yes.
>> Even though it's
completely, 100% true.
>> Yes. well, the only thing
which I can say, publicly,
is the address of the clinic.
>> That's it?
>> Yes, that's it.
Well that's the state of freedom
of speech in the state of Texas
these days, according to the
Texas Medical Board, of course.
But this is a somewhat distorted
view of America, I believe.
Yes.
>> It seems like the Dark Ages.
>> Yes.
There are dark ages.
In medicine, we are beginning
to have dark ages, unless people
will take some action.
>> Talk about the way that the
antineoplastons act as sort
of like an epigenetic
trigger, and the way that,
what would cause certain
cancer cells to map incorrectly
and become cancerous.
What are cancer cells, and what
causes these genetic switches
to map incorrectly that you
would be diagnosed with cancer?
>> Well, cancer cells
have their own genome,
which is abnormal genome.
And this genome is really
directed to rapidly multiply
cells to create a
lot of new cells
which do not play a normal
function of the body.
They are pretty much
useless for the body.
And because of
this, they spread,
they take away nutrients
from normal cells,
they exhaust the body.
Finally, they invade vital
organs and they kill the body.
So basically, these
are the cells which
will have their own genome--
this cancerous genome.
And it's not a single gene
which can cause such problems.
Initially it can start
with some abnormality
in a single gene, which
could be inherited,
which can be caused by
exposure to radiation,
by a virus infection,
by lack of sleep,
by exposure to
electromagnetic waves,
by thousands of
different factors.
And most of these
changes will come and go.
And the body is able to protect
itself, and eliminate it.
So then cancer is not
so easy to really start,
because the body has a very
good preventative system.
We believe that antineoplastons
play a very good line
of defense, and they immediately
switch off these abnormal genes
and they get rid of cancer.
So they all die out, and
there are no new cells
which contain this problem.
If you don't have
enough antineoplastons,
then, obviously, these
changes will get established.
And then there will
be some more changes.
So it's not just simple
changes that cause the problem,
it's a number of different
changes in various genes
to build a network
which really causes
malignant transformation.
And then once it gets going,
it's getting worse and worse,
it's changing all the
time, and it's becoming
more and more malignant.
And, finally, the body
is unable to control it.
So that's pretty
much what happens.
But there is a multitude of
factors at the beginning.
And later, once
it comes to start,
then obviously it's very
difficult to get rid of this.
So you need to boost
your own defense.
The immune system,
in most cases,
is not able to recognize
these cells because they're
very similar to normal cells.
If you don't have enough
antineoplastons in your body,
then you are not able
to redirect these cells,
and then the cancer
begins developing.
>> So the antineoplastons,
as opposed to the traditional
treatments for cancer--
the chemo and radiation--
the antineoplastons
don't harm the body.
The chemo works by
destroying indiscriminately.
And the radiation
destroys indiscriminately.
But the antineoplastons
really switch on your genes
in your body that would
selectively target the cancer.
>> Yeah.
The idea is to simply mount
the body's mechanism, which
would get rid of cancer.
>> OK.
>> Because normally the
body is equipped to do it.
But there is something in
the body which went wrong,
and turned off the mechanism
which is protection
against cancer.
Otherwise, everybody will get
cancer early and die from it.
>> According to Dr. Burzynski,
the antineoplastons act
as selectively toxic switches,
targeting only the cancer
cells, but not the normal cells.
In these next few
clips, we're going
to learn about using
herbs and herbal tonics
to successfully treat cancer.
So you've seen good
results with Essiac tea.
>> Yeah.
I've seen some really
excellent results with that.
>> My grandmother, who died of
cancer in '98, was diagnosed
in her late 80s, and she
was supposedly terminal,
she used Essiac
tea for 10 years.
And it gave her another decade.
>> Yeah.
I had a patient who had
a bowel obstruction,
and I opened him up, and he
had a cancer of his cecum,
where the appendix was.
And the cut it out, but it had
already spread to his liver,
and so he was kind of doomed
by conventional things.
And instead of
taking chemotherapy,
he took Essiac tea.
And he went for
years under my care,
and the tumor never came back.
>> Awesome.
So you've seen good
results with Essiac.
Anything else that you're
using currently when you're
treating cancer patients?
>> There's a lot
of possibilities.
Sometimes mega doses of
things like vitamin A--
Ramsberger in Germany used
vitamin A in giant doses.
Vitamin A is considered toxic
above 25,000 units a day.
He, just for experimental sake,
went up to half a million units
a day of vitamin A. His
skin kind of fell off.
But as soon as he stopped
taking the vitamin A,
he got all better.
But sometimes megadoses of
things like A, vitamin C
megadoses, vitamin D now has
been shown to have value--
>> Lots of vitamin D out today.
>> Vitamin D.
>> Yeah.
>> The most famous
one is called Iscador.
I'm sure you've heard
of that on your travels.
Somebody's going to
have talked about it.
Suzanne Somers made it famous,
and perhaps she took it.
It's basically
Viscum-- a mistletoe.
Viscum album, it's called.
>> What is the action, though,
in the mistletoe to treat
cancer?
>> Well, mistletoe
is highly toxic.
Now listen, this is
going on another thing.
But we don't want too much
in alternative or holistic
treatments if
they're toxic stuff--
that's what I call
chemotherapy thinking.
You know, I'll take stuff
that will kill the cancer,
and I don't even have
to change my diet.
That's not going to work.
You've got to do all the good
things I've been talking about.
But mistletoe--
you can't say it's
safe, and natural, and holistic.
It's extremely poisonous, right?
But if you take it
in the right dose--
and it's got a tradition
of hundreds of years now--
Iscador itself was
developed by Rudolf Steiner,
back in Victorian times,
and it contained--
there's a few things.
It's a mixture.
One of the important
ones is mercury iodide,
and the iodine is
great for thyroid.
Of course that's
something else I
haven't got time
to elaborate on.
But 20 years ago, I noticed
that it had surfaced
in all of the literature.
I keep seeing it.
But I noticed it because
they used those EAV testing
machines, and it would
tell you hidden signals.
And time and again with cancer,
you get a signal for thyroid--
the thyroid wasn't performing.
In fact, an
underperforming thyroid
is one of the
biggest reasons why
the immune system goes down.
You cannot afford to
have insufficient--
that's a tongue-twister.
You cannot afford to have
an inefficient thyroid
if you've got cancer.
So you need to
beef it up, and you
need to have your
thyroid checked, in fact.
So it has another
part to it, yes.
All that's built in
to the Iscador remedy.
And if you take it as it
should be, it's very safe.
And I've got to tell you
that something like 60%--
it's the most prescribed
oncological treatment
in Germany.
>> Wow.
>> Right?
You wouldn't believe that.
But 60% of cancer
patients will take it,
whether the doctor
says to or not.
They will.
It's got a very
strong tradition.
And as I said, over
here, you know,
if you don't think German
means it could be good,
then Suzanne Somers
is your reference.
She liked it, and she claims
it really, really helped her.
And I've used it
a lot, of course.
>> So I was looking around at
that time for what could I do.
And I read some books
about Rudolf Steiner.
And back in the 1920s, he
was doing something called
anthroproscopic medicine.
And one of the medicines that
jumped out at me was Iscador.
It was said that it builds
up your immune system
to be so strong that nothing
can invade or attack.
And that kind of made
sense, because clearly I
had cancer because there was
some flaw in my immune system.
So I injected Iscador for--
I started to do
it for two years.
I got it from Weleda
in Switzerland.
It's legal to bring it
into this country today,
but, at that time,
at least, they
weren't selling it in America.
Maybe they are now.
And then I kept on taking it.
I took it up until
the time that--
and I'm sure we'll get there--
I ended up in the
hospital again,
being diagnosed with cancer,
which was a misdiagnosis.
>> Now let me ask you also about
another combination of herbs
that's called the Hoxsey Tonic.
It was a tea that was formulated
by a man named Harry Hoxsey.
Actually it was formulated
by his grandfather,
and it was passed down to Harry.
And it contains red clover.
I wanted to speak with you
specifically about red clover
because one of the later
combinations of the Essiac tea
contained the clover.
And the Hoxsey tea also did.
Talk about red clover
in treating cancer.
>> Red clover is
a blood purifier.
So, basically, your
blood system is
going to be the cancer highway.
It's going to help
spread the cancer cells.
So red clover is a nice way to
sweep those cancer cells out
of the blood system.
If you layer it with bloodroot,
and burdock, and yellow dock,
you get even more
power in doing that.
So it's like a blood
cleanser, if you will.
And blood, when it's laden
down with impurities,
can't carry enough oxygen
and nutrition to the cells
to help them power up and
defend themselves and get rid
of cancer.
So red clover is
an excellent herb.
Most people have
it in their yards,
but they usually spray it
with Roundup or something.
But if you have some, don't
spray it with Roundup.
And if you do decide
to collect it,
it's usually going
to be at the fall,
in September, when the
buds turn bright red.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Wow.
Some really powerful information
that we learned tonight
about the diagnostics
for cancer,
the dangers of the
diagnostics, how they actually
might increase cancer risks,
and how they tend to give false
positives.
And then we got into so many
different natural treatments.
And then tomorrow night,
I'm doing the same thing.
Why?
Because there are so many
natural treatments for cancer.
One thing that
you might not know
is that I've personally had
skin cancer several times.
I developed a spot on my
face, didn't know what it was,
and it turns out it was
basal cell carcinoma.
At that point, I was
faced with a decision--
what do I do about it?
Do I go under the knife, which
is your typical treatment
for skin cancer?
Or do I stick to
my guns and do what
I've learned over the years?
What I did, I took this natural
salve, and I put it on the spot
on my face that was the
basal cell carcinoma.
And honestly, when
I first put it
on I wasn't really quite
sure what to expect,
but within about
five or six days,
the spot actually
fell out and the skin
healed over it, and no
more cancer at that spot.
These treatments
really work, folks.
I know from a
personal perspective.
And I also know because I've
been literally contacted
by thousands of people
over the years that
have shared with me their
personal stories of cancer
victory using these treatments.
I know you learned a
lot from tonight's show,
and you're going to learn a
lot from tomorrow night's show.
I look forward to
seeing you then.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All right.
So I'm here tonight
with Dr. Lee Cowden
We're outside Washington
DC at the Sacred--
what's it called?
Sacred Fire of Liberty Gala.
>> That's right.
>> And so I've been able to
talk to Dr. Cowden this weekend.
And he was sharing
something with me
earlier I just wanted to get
all of our listeners and viewers
to learn about.
So Dr. Cowden, if you
could share with me,
what techniques are
you currently using
to treat cancer, and
you're teaching doctors
to treat cancer?
>> Right.
I had a practice
until 2009, and then
after that I started teaching
others practitioners what
I'd learned over the
previous 30 years.
But this technique that I find
extremely helpful in dealing
with cancer patients, especially
the advanced cancer patients,
is called Recall Healing.
So practitioners
can learn about that
by going to our
Academy website--
www.acimconnect.com.
And there on the website, we
have four 13-hour courses.
So 52 hours worth of education
about Recall Healing.
But the principle
of Recall Healing
is that you identify
the diagnosis,
and based on the
diagnosis, you can
tell what the emotional
conflict is that would
have brought on the diagnosis.
And then, once you know
the emotional conflict,
and the time of the
onset of the illness,
then you can actually
go back and identify
what the events were that
probably triggered the cancer.
And so it's not a
complicated process,
but you have to have the
patient have an aha moment.
So you can't tell them
what the conflict is,
you have to ask
leading questions that
finally makes them realize
what the conflict is.
So that's the key.
And so the way that
I teach practitioners
do this is to learn the
use of the eVox device--
eVox is zyto.com technology.
With the eVox, the patient
speaks into a microphone.
The microphone is not
recording the words,
but it is recording
the frequencies
that are embedded in the voice.
And after 15 seconds of speaking
about a person or an event,
displayed on the computer
screen are all of the emotions
and beliefs that you have
about that person or about
that belief--
about that person or that event.
So, what happens then, is
that for the person seeing
that on the computer screen, it
becomes an aha moment for them
at that moment.
So they see emotional
issues that they weren't
aware of 15 seconds earlier.
And so then that gives
the brain that opportunity
to start a healing process.
In addition to that, the
device converts their own voice
frequencies into homeopathic
homochords-- basically a higher
level of energy that
it delivers back
to the patient
through an electrode
that the patient has their
hand on while they're
listening to pleasant music
and watching flashing lights
through their closed eyelids.
So when we create a marriage
between the eVox therapy
and Recall Healing, you get an
extremely powerful combination.
I sometimes will
encourage practitioners
to add one other tool to that.
It's called Ezov-- not
to be confused with eVox.
But Ezov are drops
of extract of hyssop
that's been quantum
physically embedded
with 45 combinations of
energies that make it act
like a very complex homeopathy.
And so when you take the
Ezov drop at bedtime,
and you don't do anything
else, you actually
change your dream state.
So if you've had a repetitive
dream that never gets resolved,
you have a dream that finally
resolves that conflict.
If you've always dreamed
in black and white,
you start dreaming in color.
If you've never remembered
your dreams before,
you start remembering
your dreams.
But you start your
Ezov drops some days
in advance of the eVox and
Recall Healing session.
Then the patient comes for
the eVox and Recall Healing
session.
And you take the history, figure
out what the conflict would be,
and start doing some, I call
it, roundabout questions
to the patient so that they
can try to get at some of that.
When you finally hit
the mark, if they
don't get a full
breakthrough in the resolving
of that emotional conflict,
then you do the eVox session.
And then they can finish the
resolution of that conflict.
>> So it's really about--
one of the main
keys is resolving
the emotional conflicts.
>> Yeah.
What I've learned over
the last 30-some-odd years
is that the body develops
a symptom because, usually,
of an inflammatory process.
The inflammation usually comes
from microbes in the body,
and the immune system
responds to the microbes,
or toxins in the body,
and the immune system
responds to those toxins.
There's sometimes both
toxins and microbes
in an immune system response.
But anyway, the
toxins will hang up
in the body, in my
experience, where there's
an unresolved conscious
or subconscious-- usually
a subconscious emotion for
the deepest physical diseases
that we have.
And the emotions that
have the greatest
impact on the physical
health are the emotions
that we experience in the womb.
So, before we're
even born, we're
picking up mom's emotion
and dad's emotion
and carrying those
forward into our life.
And then the second
most impactful,
on our physical health,
are the emotions
that we experience in
the first year of life.
And the third most
impactful are the emotions
that are experienced in the
second year life, and so on.
So by the time you're
about a teenager,
then usually you
don't have much impact
on the physical
health from emotions
that you've
experienced, unless it's
scraping the scab off
an emotional wound that
was in your being from in
the womb or early childhood.
>> Mm.
And so you said this is
really focused on emotions.
And you're coupling it with--
does this have anything to do
with the German new medicine
that you were mentioning?
>> Yeah.
So the Recall Healing
that I mentioned
is a synthesis of
German new medicine--
Dr. Ryke Hamer in
Germany started
developing that in 1978.
And then he became
very skilled in it
because he resolved his own
testicular cancer first,
then he resolved
testicular cancer
in a bunch of other men the same
way, just by asking questions
and when they had the
emotional conflict resolution,
the cancer just went away.
Then he resolved
ovarian cancer in women,
then he started working
on lung cancer, and lots
of other cancers.
So Dr. Hamer presented
his research findings
to the University of
Tubingen, and by law they
were required to
replicate his research
that he did to see whether
it was true or not.
But to this day, they have
still not replicate it,
because they knew that probably
it would be replicable,
and they didn't want to show
that just asking questions was
comparable to giving
chemotherapy, or surgery,
or radiation.
>> Mm.
>> So Dr. Hamer was very upset
that they would not replicate
his research as required by
law, so he started speaking out
to the media and to the public.
And as a result of
that, he was arrested
for inciting the public against
the medical establishment,
and tried.
And during the court trial,
something that has almost
never happened in history, is
that the attorney representing
Hamer got the prosecuting
attorney up on the stand
to take an oath and
testify on Hamer's behalf.
>> Wow.
>> And what happened was, the
prosecuting attorney has gotten
the records from Hamer's office
and had his staff call 6,000
people to find out what was
going on with the families
or the patients.
He found that 92% of the
patients that were called
were still alive.
92% were still alive
five years after Hamer
did his one-time emotional
conflict resolution.
This is patients with stage
III and stage IV cancer.
>> 92%?
>> 92% were still alive.
>> A little bit better
than the conventional--
>> Just a little
bit better, yes.
>> Hi.
My name is Terry,
and let me tell you
about my story, my recovery
from stage IV breast cancer.
OK, in 2002 I was diagnosed
with breast cancer,
and I went through
the medical route.
I had surgery,
chemotherapy, radiation.
I ended up with a mastectomy.
Every year, once a year,
the cancer would come back.
And then, after
the doctors started
to give me chemotherapy,
which was a pill--
which was so toxic my
husband wasn't allowed
to touch it with his
hands, but I'm supposed
to swallow it twice a day--
and after that--
and the doctor said,
well, this will give
you a few more months.
And then at that point
it was stage IV cancer.
I went through it.
I had these side effects,
which burned my hands
and the bottoms
of my feet, and it
felt like I was walking on
rocks with sunburned feet.
At that point in time,
I just prayed to God.
I said, all right, I'm
ready to go home if that's
what you want me to do.
I'm really OK with it.
But if you want more for
me to do, just show me.
Because I've done everything
I thought I should do,
but it wasn't working.
So after I prayed, and
as I was recovering
from all of the
chemotherapy, I had
read a lot about natural
healing for cancer.
And through reading that,
several different people
contacted me through a route
which encompassed the five
essentials of maximized living.
And this was before I even
knew anything about it.
But I ended up going through
a detox, which was a detox
program through raw
foods and colonics,
and all kinds of things
to detox my body.
I took Essiac tea.
But all kinds of natural routes.
Well, after about three
months, the cancer was gone,
and it never did come back.
And that's been 10 years.
So through that, God healed me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]